# Notes:

## Status

To do:

* Make links to the man pages (online) -- the list in the summary would be a
  good place.  Other links as needed.
  
* Run through entire command sequence.
  `grep '^[$]' | sed -e "/$ /p;s/$ //;e"`


## Notes on structure

* This directory has been pulled out of the tree I've been working in using
  `git subtree split`, and put in a branch of MSLearn using `git subtree add`.
  That preserves its history (for what that's worth) and makes it easy to keep
  up to date in both directions as changes are made.

```
  git subtree split -P Learn_to_Use_Git -b intro-to-git --rejoin
  cd ../MSLearn
  git pull
  git subtree pull -P Introduction\ to\ Git ssavitzky intro-to-git
  git push origin intro-to-git
```

* It's not clear to me what the right name for the intro to Git should be; if
  we follow the naming convention given in 'Writing MS Learn Modules.pdf' it
  should probably be something like "Use Git for Version Control".
  
* It looks from a cursory reading that Git is a separate "product" (ms-prod in
  the YAML files), and it's possible that Microsoft will want it in a separate
  Git repository.  The subtree/branch structure makes that easy.
  
```
  git subtree split -P Learn_to_Use_Git -b intro-to-git --rejoin
  mkdir new-product.git; git -C new-product.git init --bare
  git push <new bare repo> intro-to-git:master
```

* The preliminary YAML files were generated by a script; descriptions were
  added manually.

## Notes on content

* I haven't gone back through to look for opportunities to add links.  Most
  links will be to either the [Git Reference Manual](https://git-scm.com/docs)
  or the [Pro Git book](https://git-scm.com/book).
  
* I'm assuming the student will be using [Git for
  Windows](http://git-scm.com/download/win) on their own computer; there's
  probably a way of getting a free VM as an alternative.  I've also included
  installation instructions for Mac and Linux (because they're completely
  trivial compared to Windows).
  
* The sample code is for Git Bash; Bash is common to all platforms and the
  available Unix tools make it easy to cut-and-paste commands rather than
  using a text editor for most things.

* includes/assets directory for images and starter files (index.html,
  site.css, cat pictures, etc.)

## Things to fix

~ singular they/them
* text after headings and before lists or transcripts
* after transcripts explain what they're looking at
* commands in this unit: make it a paragraph.  Descriptions start with ",
  which" and end with semicolon
* list all commands, including Unix commands, not just the new ones
* more vocabulary: origin, branch, merge, checkout, commit
* bridge text, e.g., "You also performed your first Git commit. The next step
  is to learn how to track changes made to files in a local repository, as
  well as how to quantify those changes." 
* present tense
* describe commit first line as present imperative
  see [The Art of the Commit · An A List Apart
  Article](https://alistapart.com/article/the-art-of-the-commit) and [How to
  Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) 
  First line also used as subject line in email.
* cat website (Alice's cat is Dinah, of course)
* Don't use "like"; use, e.g., "for example"
* forward refs for stuff that can be skipped

