# Notes:

## Notes on structure

* This directory has (hopefully) been pulled out of the tree I've been working
  in using `git subtree split`, and put in a branch of MSLearn using `git
  subtree add`.  That preserves its history (for what that's worth) and makes
  it easy to keep up to date in both directions as changes are made.
  
* It's not clear to me what the right name for the intro to Git should be; if
  we follow the naming convention given in 'Writing MS Learn Modules.pdf' it
  should probably be something like "Use Git for Version Control".
  
* It looks from a cursory reading that Git is a separate "product" (ms-prod in
  the YAML files), and it's possible that Microsoft will want it in a separate
  Git repository.  The subtree/branch structure makes that easy.
  
* The preliminary YAML files are generated by a script.

## Notes on content

* I've gotten as far as the beginning of Unit 06.  After the first paragraph
  it's just sketchy notes.

* I haven't gone back through to look for opportunities to add links.  Most
  links will be to either the [Git Reference Manual](https://git-scm.com/docs)
  or the [Pro Git book](https://git-scm.com/book).
  
* I'm assuming the student will be using [Git for
  Windows](http://git-scm.com/download/win) on their own computer; there's
  probably a way of getting a free VM as an alternative.  I've also included
  installation instructions for Mac and Linux (because they're completely
  trivial compared to Windows).
  
* The sample code is for Git Bash; Bash is common to all platforms and the
  available Unix tools make it easy to cut-and-paste commands rather than
  using a text editor for most things.
